# Hey there, I'm Amir 👋

[//]: ![Hey](/amir-iqbal-small.jpg)

Welcome to my personal website!

I am a person who loves engaging with people to appreciate different
perspectives and to keep learning and enjoying. I highly value originality,
humbleness, and honesty. I am blessed with a supportive wife and three amazing
girls. I enjoy reading books, cycling and lifting weights.

Here I will provide an introduction of my experience and expertise.

## Project Management

I have twenty-five years of ICT industry experience working in multicultural
environments in Pakistan, Singapore, and Oman. Most of my professional life is
spent on managing teams and projects, interacting with clients and vendors and
delivering results. I have successfully delivered projects of up to 5 MUSD
value.

I believe that a leader’s real job is to invest time and energy in developing
healthy teams with a focus on personal growth. I am inspired by ideas of _Tom
DeMarco_ for developing thriving teams and of _W. Edwards Deming_ for developing
effective organizations.

> “By using simplistic extrinsic motivators to goad performance, managers excuse
> themselves from harder matters such as investment, direct personal motivation,
> thoughtful team formation, staff retention, and ongoing analysis and redesign
> of work procedures.”
>
> Excerpt From Peopleware: Productive Projects and Teams, Third Edition Tom
> DeMarco

## Programming

Notwithstanding the fact that I enjoy interacting with people and managing
project, I am a programmer at heart. Since my graduation in 1997 I have been
programming. If my job role does not require active programming, I would look
for opportunities for automation, scripting or otherwise helping my team mates
in technical tasks.

## AI / Machine Learning

When I joined academia in 2017 and started teaching undergrad students of
computer science, I got the chance to work in the area of AI / machine learning.
Since then I have kept my interest in the field by continuing to do
experimentation.
